# Getting And Cleaning Data - Code Book

## Description

The data described below is for the output of the Getting and Cleaning Data Coursera class. This code book summarizes the data fields in `averagedMeasurementData.txt`. Additional data about the class can be found here: https://www.coursera.org/learn/data-cleaning

## Source

The source data for this project is from the Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems at UCI. Thirty adult subjects within an age bracket of 19-48 years performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, they captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity data. Additional information regarding the study can be found here: http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones

The exact data source for this project can be found here:

`https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip`

The output found in `averagedMeasurementData.txt` was generated by a R script  called `run_analysis.R`. Please see `README.md` for more information about the project. 


## Data Description

The data file has three main components:

* A subject identifier `SubjectID`
* An activity type `ActivityType`
* 64 columns of averaged values grouped by SubjectID and ActivityType

`SubjectID`: is an integer from 1 to 30 representing the subjects in the study. We have no further information on what this value means. It is provided directly from the source data.

`ActivityType`: self explanatory...
* WALKING
* WALKING_UPSTAIRS
* WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS
* SITTING
* STANDING
* LAYING

`Avg_*`:
These columns have averaged data grouped by SubjectID and ActivityType. The units used for the accelerations (total and body) are 'g's (gravity of earth -> 9.80665 m/s^2).

The names for the column headers take their values from the `features.txt` file provided in the raw data. The column names might be self explanatory for some. However, no attempt was made to make them more human readable since their exact meaning is unknown to this student. More information might be available at the source website noted above.